Let's now look at how you can send messages to a queue.
In all our examples, we will use text messages,
but you can use any of the JMS message types obviously.
I've created a method called sendTextMessageToQueue,
which takes the text message we want to send as a parameter,
as well as a JMS session object.
We need to create the queue object that we want to send the messages to.
Then we create the TextMessage object itself using a
method on the session parameter.
Next we create a messageProducer object,
also using the session parameter passed in.
And finally, we simply send the message using the producer.
So let's see how this could actually be invoked.
I'm creating a static void main method for my example application,
inside which I instantiate an instance of my application class.
I then use that application reference to create a ConnectionFactory.
I then also need to create a connection to the
message broker and also a session.
Now I'm actually in the position where I can send the message I want,
so I can call the sendTextMesageToQueue method,
passing in my message and also the required session object.
Finally, let's do some tidy up, and assure we are freeing up resources.
So I call session.
close and also connection.
close.
So let's try this out.
I'll execute my application.
Once it's compiled and completed executing,
I'll jump back to the ActiveMQ Admin console.
I'll refresh the queue section,
and now I can see my test destination queue has been created,
and that there is one message on the queue awaiting consumption.
If I browse the queue, then I can see the details of the messages on the queue.
There is of course only one,
but if I jump into the details of that specific message,
then I can see the actual textual body of the message that we actually sent.
It's also possible to use the queue session.
In this case, I'm going to create a copy of the sendTextMessagetoQueue method,
which takes a queue session interface as a parameter,
rather than the more generic session interface.
Although I could leave the method as it is,
I'm going to call createSender on the queue session,
rather than createProducer.
This results in a queue sender interface.
So to test this, I need to go back to my main method and adjust that.
I'm creating a queueConnectionFactory and a queueConnection object this time.
I'm also creating a queueSession, rather than the more generic session object.
I'll also change the text of the message so we can distinguish it.
Oops, I actually forgot to change the session return type to a queueSession,
so let's fix that.
So let's compile and run that again.
It's complete, so now we jump back to the ActiveMQ Admin console,
and refresh the queues.
Now I can see two messages, and based on the timestamps,
if I click on the latest message, then I can see the content of our message, which says another message.